---
layout: post
title:  "Dopamine hacks"
date:   2018-07-26 12:00:00 -0700
published: true
comments:  true
tags: health
---

Fighting depression, anxiety, and trouble concentrating.

# Preface

I going to begin with how I got on this road, then follow that with what I've been doing lately.

# How it all 'started': Did I have undiagnosed ADHD?

This isn't how things began chronilogically, it actually starts relatively towards the end. 
When I decided to go back to school to learn how to write code, part of that was the need to revisit mathematics.
Even though I was essentially only taking 2 classes, an 'intro to programming course' and a trigonometry course, I found myself spending exhorbitant amounts of time on the class material.
What took my classmates a few hours a week to accomplish essentially had sitting at my desk working nearly all the time I wasn't in class, something like 30-40 hours a week.
How could it have taken me this long? 5-8x longer than my classmates?
I was excrutiatingly busy and although I liked the subject material, it did not look sustainable once I'd go on to upper-division courses.
I spent what time I had researching what could possibly be the problem: was I just slow? Rusty?
I encountered a several articles that outlined what adults who suffered from ADHD experienced.
This gave me some hope, as the 'symptoms' listed in these articles seemed to explain not only the problems I was experiencing at school, but problems I had experienced my whole life.
Unfortunately, ADHD turns out to be a very highly-guarded diagnosis, one has to go to great lengths and spend quite a lot of money and time to get help for it.
This is a side effect of the common treatments for ADHD involving controlled substances.

# Through the meat-grinder: The American Healthcare system

Since I couldn't get a diagnosis without having to pay out of pocket for a doctor outside of my insurance (Medi-Cal), I would have to try getting help for it with less-resticed medications.
The first one given to me was strattera (atomoxetine).
It falls into a category of drugs called Selective Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRI).
Norepinephrine, known elsewhere in the world as Noradrenaline, is a neurotransmitter that affects the brain's fight-or-flight reposnse.
I liked the effect it had on my mind, curtailing and 'spreading out' my brains tendency to flood itself with stress and anxiety, which had the effect of allowing me to conentrate on my work for longer periods without being distracted by emotionally-charged thoughts.
However, a month into use of this medication I noticed a slight 'knot-pinch'-like feeling in my upper right abdomen, that would moe around to my lower right ribcage and also into areas of my back and shoulder.
At the time of this writing, It's been 2 months since I've come off this medication and the knot-pinch is still there.
I can no longer drink alcohol, even drinking kombucha tea which is below 0.5% causes me discomfort.
The next medication they wanted to try was Welbutrin (Bupropion). However, it was a non-starter because of the abdominal pain.
These medicaitons had the undesirable effect of reawakening depressive episodes that I had not experienced in years.
Strattera did have the benefit of demonstrating to me how swamped in my own anxiety I had been, however.
It seemed as though my problems were multiplying instead of being treated.

# What I'm doing about it now

This section is why I started this article. Unfortunately I spent so much time writing the preface that I've oerrun my time allotment for today. 
When I return to this peice, I'm going to write about my discoveries regarding dopamine and the role it's played in my life and how it may be the source for all of my prior issues.
At the time of this writing, my hypothesis seems to be leading me into a direction that could solve my problems, but it's difficult to tell early on. 
If the issue is really a dopamine-related problem, it could be months before I see the effects of these changes. 
In short, I'm avoiding as many activities as I can identify which would cause an irregular release of the neurotransmitter dopamine, in an effort to get my brain to produce it naturally on it's own.
This includes:

    - Drugs that alter my state of mind, ie. caffiene
    - Alcohol
    - Social Media
    - Porn
    - Videogames

Here's to seeing an improvement.
